###Dependencies

The datagrid class requires two other classes to function: a database class and a url managment class. These are in the dependecies directory, and should be linked appropriately without adjustment.

###Configuration files
The grid uses three configuration files. These are separate from the main grid class file so that they can be customized for specific grid instances. They are:

**dg_config.php**
Default database connection information. Connection information can also be set for a particular instance.

**dg_paths.php**
Paths for client-side files (css and javascript)

**dg_modes.php**
Grouped configuration options for what displays on the front end. This allows collections of datagrid display settings (such as whether to ouput HTML headers, whether to show admin and development tools, and whether to display search and pagination controls) to be defined for specific types of applications. Which of these modes is used for each datagrid instance is set through the instance settings (see below).

####File paths
In order to make the DG as flexible and convenient to use as possible, there are several options for where these configuration files can be located. When a DG is loaded, it first checks in the working directory of the script that's including it. Any config files that are not found there will be included from the main DG directory. For example, if you have the DG installed in /www/datagrid/, but   you're also creating some grids in /www/mywigetfactory/wigetlist.php that connect to a different database, you can put another dg_config.php file into /www/mywigetfactory/ and it will be used instead of /www/datagrid/dg_config.php in grids use that as their working directory. For single instances the database info can also be set when instantiating the class (see below).
