Each datagrid field's '*type*' attribute controls how that field is treated in the edit form, among other things.

A field's type can be set using

```php
$grid->set_field_attribute($table,$field,'type',$new_field_type);
```

When the grid automatically detects the fields in a table, it will heuristically assign field types to certain database fields. The first field in the table will be automatically designated the table's primary key, and its type will be set to '*readonly,hidden*'; database TEXT fields will be set to '*textarea*' field type; and any field with the title 'content' will be automatically set to a TinyMCE wysiwyg editing ('*wysiwyg*')field. These automatic guesses can be overridden by setting the field type using *$grid->set_field_attrib()*; all other fields will be set to '*text*'.

##Field types:

###Read only
Field contents appear as plain text on the edit page.

Example: 'readonly'

###Hidden
Field is filled as a 'hidden' field in the edit form. This is generally not necessary except for primary key fields
Example: 'hidden'

###Read only + hidden
Displays field value as plain text, and also adds a hidden field to the edit form

Example: 'readonly,hidden'

###Text
Basic text input field.

Example: 'text'

###Dynamic select
Select box that is populated from values taken from another database table. <b>In most cases, a parent table should be added rather than using the dynamic select type</b>

Example: 'select:table,value_field,display_field'

table: the table to select the options from
value_field: field in the options table where the select value will come from
display_field: field in the options table that the displayed select option will come from


###Textarea
Textarea input. Width and height can be set using the style field attribute.
Example: 'textarea'

###Extra
Output arbitrary HTML instead of a form field in the edit form. Fields of type 'extra' will not display at all in the main grid.

Example: 'extra:This text will appear instead of a form field'


###WYSIWYG
TinyMCE WYSIWYG content editing field. Width and height of the grid can be set with a colon and comma-delimited string.

Many other TinyMCE settings can be adjusted by editing the tinymce_init.js.php file in the datagrid/js directory.

Example: 'wysiwyg:300,500'

###Static select
Standard select box.

Example: 'staticselect:Poor,Medium,Excellent'


###Date
Year, month, and date select with popout calendar. By default, date will be set to current date. Date will be written to the database in YYYY-MM-DD format.

Example: 'date'


###Multi-checkbox

This field type is useful in certain cases when a number of optional items can be selected. It uses some javascript to populate a single field with a comma-delimited string of checked values.

Example: 'multicheckbox:option1,option2,option3'


###Derivitive
This is a special field type for fields that are conjured up in the datagrid but don't actually exist in the database. It can be used in conjunction with display templates or callbacks to show something in the grid that doesn't relate to a real database field. Fields set to this type will be ignored in all database queries.


